
Michel (radio Lora) Xtreme streaming crash course

( more MuSE documentation on http://muse.dyne.org )

0. Preparation

0.0 a few days before the chat give 2 irc servers you will be in chat
(if one swerver is down it is late und difficult to contact the poeple)
ant tell to the poeple in chat, that we start testing 1 hour before the real stream.

0.1. Take your time to prepare things and to be sure they work

0.2. prepare all the tech material beforehand and keep it clear, in
order.  Keep at hand some redundancies for cables plugs and microphones.
Tape cables if you can an anyhow be sure there are no cable in places
people can step over them. 

0.2.1. Keep things essential!

0.3. NO DRINKS IN PLACES HIGHER THAN YOUR TECH OR ON THEIR LEVEL. 
Driks spill, they do!

0.4. KEEP THINGS CLEAN (sand, ash, debris are no good for equipment)

0.5. Divide tasks between people doing the stream if you can, is hard to
concentrate on technicalities if you also have to social engeneer your
guests or the internet shop owner AND prepare your text/head for live
radio. If you have nobody to help you then take time alone for
technicalities, half an hour before other people arrives.
Do technicalities with concentrations (see also 0.2.1.)

0.6. Help your listeners and treasure their feedback. The tested way 
to have connection with restreamers is irc. Get in irc as soon as you 
have finished setting up the techies. Tell them if you have problems, check 
that they ear the stream, ask for help if you need.



1. Stream test

1.1 Start or restart the computer with dynebolic cd in the tray (one
hour before the real stream)

T1.1: Trouble: computer does not start


1.2.  Just wait until the first Dynebolic Windows appaers

T1.2 : Trouble : CD does not boot


1.5.
Open Muse
right mousse click
audio
stream
muse

1.6.
Control audio

a) Audio output

Music in the computer
add Music
right click in the channel
add file
browse to find mp3 music

choose an audio file
(.mp3 or .ogg) and play it

open the Vumeters
click on VUmeter


Vumeter audio must have signal

set music on loop to prevent the stop of signal
(important for the stream, if no signal, the poeple outside cannot hear if it works)


b) audio Input
Microphone
click Microphone button
speak something the VU meter must have signal

T1.6 : Trouble: with microphone no signal in VU meter



1.7.
click let's stream button

1.8.
a new window appears

put the name of the host, for example

berkman.indymedia.org

port
8003

mount point
/wet.mp3

password
*******

and connect

1.9.
in muse comes
started stream ....


T1.9 : Trouble: no connection

so that all... it is still the preparation part now we can test

1.10.
chat (if youdont know how to chat see T10 : howto chat)

T1.10 : chat server is down second, use the second mailed chat server (see 0.0)


please choice a name which is clear (example: /nick baghdad)
first we must tell to the poeple in the chat is the adress of your icecast server
so for example
http://berkman.indymedia.org:8003/wet.mp3

the first question must be example :
do you hear us? now we stream music




Baghdad, august 2004
